OPAL (Oxford Phrasal Academic Lexicon)

ability noun 
abnormal adjective 
abnormality noun 
above adjective 
above adverb 
absence noun 
absent adjective 
absolute adjective 
academic adjective 
academic noun 
accept verb 
acceptable adjective 
acceptance noun 
access noun 
access verb 
accessible adjective 
according to preposition 
accordingly adverb 
account noun 
account verb 
accountability noun 
accumulate verb 
accumulation noun 
accuracy noun 
accurate adjective 
accurately adverb 
achieve verb 
achievement noun 
acknowledge verb 
acquire verb 
acquisition noun 
act noun 
act verb 
action noun 
active adjective 
actively adverb 
activity noun 
actual adjective 
adapt verb 
adaptation noun 
adaptive adjective 
addition noun 
additional adjective 
additionally adverb 
address verb 
adequate adjective 
adequately adverb 
adjust verb 
adjustment noun 
administer verb 
administration noun 
administrative adjective 
adopt verb 
advantage noun 
affect verb 
age noun 
agenda noun 
agent noun 
agreement noun 
agricultural adjective 
aim noun 
aim verb 
allow verb 
alter verb 
alteration noun 
alternative adjective 
alternative noun 
alternatively adverb 
although conjunction 
among preposition 
amount noun 
amount verb 
analyse verb 
analysis noun 
analyst noun 
analytical adjective 
animal noun 
annual adjective 
anxiety noun 
apparent adjective 
appear verb 
applicable adjective 
application noun 
apply verb 
approach noun 
appropriate adjective 
appropriately adverb 
approximately adverb 
approximation noun 
area noun 
arguably adverb 
argue verb 
argument noun 
arise verb 
arrangement noun 
article noun 
aspect noun 
assert verb 
assertion noun 
assess verb 
assessment noun 
assign verb 
associate verb 
association noun 
assume verb 
assumption noun 
attitude noun 
attribute noun 
attribute verb 
author noun 
authority noun 
availability noun 
available adjective 
average adjective 
average noun 
average verb 
avoid verb 
aware adjective 
awareness noun 
background noun 
balance noun 
balance verb 
barrier noun 
base noun 
base verb 
based adjective 
basic adjective 
basis noun 
behave verb 
behaviour noun 
belief noun 
below adverb 
below preposition 
beneficial adjective 
beneficiary noun 
benefit noun 
benefit verb 
between preposition 
beyond preposition 
bias noun 
bias verb 
broad adjective 
broadly adverb 
burden noun 
can modal verb 
capability noun 
capable adjective 
capacity noun 
care noun 
case noun 
categorize verb 
category noun 
causal adjective 
causation noun 
cause noun 
cause verb 
central adjective 
centralize verb 
centre noun 
centre verb 
century noun 
certain adjective 
certainty noun 
chain noun 
challenge noun 
challenge verb 
change noun 
change verb 
channel noun 
character noun 
characteristic adjective 
characteristic noun 
characterization noun 
characterize verb 
choice noun 
circumstance noun 
cite verb 
claim noun 
claim verb 
classic adjective 
classical adjective 
classification noun 
classify verb 
clear adjective 
clearly adverb 
climate noun 
code noun 
code verb 
column noun 
combination noun 
combine verb 
commercial adjective 
commit verb 
commitment noun 
common adjective 
commonly adverb 
communicate verb 
communication noun 
community noun 
comparable adjective 
comparative adjective 
compare verb 
comparison noun 
compete verb 
competition noun 
complex adjective 
complex noun 
complexity noun 
component noun 
composition noun 
comprehensive adjective 
comprise verb 
conceive verb 
concept noun 
conception noun 
conceptual adjective 
conceptualize verb 
concern noun 
concern verb 
conclude verb 
conclusion noun 
condition noun 
conditional adjective 
conduct noun 
conduct verb 
confirm verb 
conflict noun 
conflict verb 
connect verb 
connection noun 
consensus noun 
consent noun 
consequence noun 
consequently adverb 
conservation noun 
conservative adjective 
conserve verb 
consider verb 
considerable adjective 
considerably adverb 
consideration noun 
consist verb 
consistency noun 
consistent adjective 
consistently adverb 
constant adjective 
constant noun 
constitute verb 
constrain verb 
constraint noun 
construct noun 
construct verb 
construction noun 
constructive adjective 
consume verb 
consumption noun 
contact noun 
contain verb 
contemporary adjective 
content noun 
context noun 
continuity noun 
continuous adjective 
contrast noun 
contrast verb 
contribute verb 
contribution noun 
control noun 
control verb 
convention noun 
conventional adjective 
conversion noun 
convert verb 
cooperation noun 
cooperative adjective 
coordinate noun 
coordinate verb 
coordination noun 
core noun 
correct adjective 
correction noun 
correctly adverb 
correlate verb 
correlation noun 
correspond verb 
corresponding adjective 
country noun 
coverage noun 
create verb 
creation noun 
creative adjective 
criterion noun 
critical adjective 
critically adverb 
criticize verb 
crucial adjective 
cultural adjective 
culturally adverb 
culture noun 
cumulative adjective 
current adjective 
current noun 
currently adverb 
cycle noun 
data noun 
deal verb 
debate noun 
decade noun 
decision noun 
decline noun 
decline verb 
decrease noun 
decrease verb 
define verb 
definition noun 
degree noun 
demand noun 
demonstrate verb 
denote verb 
depend verb 
dependence noun 
dependent adjective 
derive verb 
describe verb 
description noun 
descriptive adjective 
design noun 
design verb 
desirable adjective 
desire noun 
desire verb 
detail noun 
detailed adjective 
determinant noun 
determination noun 
determine verb 
develop verb 
development noun 
deviation noun 
device noun 
differ verb 
difference noun 
different adjective 
differentiate verb 
differentiation noun 
differently adverb 
difficult adjective 
difficulty noun 
digital adjective 
dimension noun 
direct adjective 
direct verb 
direction noun 
directly adverb 
disadvantage noun 
disadvantage verb 
discipline noun 
discrimination noun 
discuss verb 
discussion noun 
distance noun 
distinct adjective 
distinction noun 
distinctive adjective 
distinguish verb 
distribute verb 
distribution noun 
diverse adjective 
diversity noun 
divide verb 
division noun 
document noun 
document verb 
domain noun 
dominance noun 
dominant adjective 
dominate verb 
donor noun 
due adjective 
duration noun 
during preposition 
dynamic adjective 
dynamic noun 
early adjective 
ecological adjective 
economic adjective 
economically adverb 
education noun 
educational adjective 
effect noun 
effective adjective 
effectively adverb 
effectiveness noun 
efficacy noun 
efficiency noun 
efficient adjective 
efficiently adverb 
effort noun 
element noun 
elevate verb 
eliminate verb 
elsewhere adverb 
emerge verb 
emergence noun 
emotional adjective 
emphasis noun 
emphasize verb 
empirical adjective 
empirically adverb 
employ verb 
empower verb 
enable verb 
encode verb 
encounter noun 
encounter verb 
encourage verb 
energy noun 
engage verb 
enhance verb 
ensure verb 
entity noun 
entry noun 
environment noun 
environmental adjective 
equal adjective 
equal verb 
equally adverb 
equivalence noun 
equivalent adjective 
equivalent noun 
error noun 
especially adverb 
essence noun 
essential adjective 
essentially adverb 
establish verb 
establishment noun 
estimate noun 
estimate verb 
estimation noun 
ethic noun 
ethical adjective 
ethnic adjective 
ethnicity noun 
evaluate verb 
evaluation noun 
event noun 
evidence noun 
evident adjective 
evolution noun 
evolutionary adjective 
evolve verb 
examination noun 
examine verb 
example noun 
exceed verb 
exception noun 
excess noun 
excessive adjective 
exchange noun 
exclude verb 
exclusion noun 
exclusive adjective 
exclusively adverb 
exemplify verb 
exercise noun 
exercise verb 
exist verb 
existence noun 
expand verb 
expansion noun 
expect verb 
expectation noun 
experience noun 
experience verb 
experiment noun 
experimental adjective 
expert adjective 
expert noun 
expertise noun 
explain verb 
explanation noun 
explanatory adjective 
explicit adjective 
explicitly adverb 
exploit verb 
exploitation noun 
exploration noun 
explore verb 
expose verb 
express verb 
expression noun 
extend verb 
extension noun 
extensive adjective 
extent noun 
external adjective 
extreme adjective 
extreme noun 
facilitate verb 
facility noun 
fact noun 
factor noun 
fail verb 
failure noun 
favour verb 
favourable adjective 
feature noun 
feature verb 
federal adjective 
female adjective 
female noun 
field noun 
financial adjective 
finding noun 
flexibility noun 
flexible adjective 
flow noun 
flow verb 
focus noun 
focus verb 
force noun 
form noun 
form verb 
formal adjective 
formation noun 
formula noun 
formulate verb 
formulation noun 
framework noun 
frequent adjective 
frequently adverb 
fully adverb 
function noun 
function verb 
functional adjective 
fund noun 
fund verb 
fundamental adjective 
fundamentally adverb 
funding noun 
further adjective 
furthermore adverb 
future adjective 
future noun 
gain noun 
gain verb 
gap noun 
gender noun 
general adjective 
general noun 
generalization noun 
generalize verb 
generally adverb 
generate verb 
generation noun 
geographical adjective 
global adjective 
goal noun 
govern verb 
government noun 
governmental adjective 
group noun 
group verb 
growth noun 
guidance noun 
harm noun 
harmful adjective 
hence adverb 
hierarchical adjective 
hierarchy noun 
high adjective 
highlight verb 
highly adverb 
historically adverb 
history noun 
horizontal adjective 
however adverb 
human adjective 
hypothesis noun 
hypothesize verb 
hypothetical adjective 
ideal adjective 
ideal noun 
ideally adverb 
identical adjective 
identification noun 
identify verb 
identity noun 
illustrate verb 
image noun 
immediate adjective 
impact noun 
impact verb 
implement verb 
implementation noun 
implicit adjective 
implicitly adverb 
imply verb 
importance noun 
important adjective 
importantly adverb 
impose verb 
improve verb 
improvement noun 
inability noun 
inadequate adjective 
inappropriate adjective 
include verb 
including preposition 
inclusion noun 
inconsistent adjective 
incorporate verb 
increase noun 
increase verb 
increasingly adverb 
indeed adverb 
independence noun 
independent adjective 
independently adverb 
index noun 
indicate verb 
indication noun 
indicator noun 
indirect adjective 
indirectly adverb 
individual adjective 
individual noun 
individually adverb 
induce verb 
induction noun 
inequality noun 
infer verb 
inference noun 
influence noun 
influence verb 
inform verb 
information noun 
informed adjective 
inherent adjective 
initial adjective 
initially adverb 
initiate verb 
initiation noun 
initiative noun 
input noun 
insight noun 
instability noun 
instance noun 
instruction noun 
instrument noun 
insufficient adjective 
integral adjective 
integrate verb 
integrated adjective 
integration noun 
intend verb 
intensity noun 
intensive adjective 
intention noun 
interact verb 
interaction noun 
interactive adjective 
interest noun 
intermediate adjective 
internal adjective 
international adjective 
interpret verb 
interpretation noun 
interval noun 
intervene verb 
intervention noun 
interview noun 
interview verb 
interviewee noun 
interviewer noun 
intrinsic adjective 
introduce verb 
introduction noun 
investigate verb 
investigation noun 
investigator noun 
involve verb 
involvement noun 
irrelevant adjective 
isolated adjective 
isolation noun 
issue noun 
item noun 
judgement noun 
justification noun 
justify verb 
key adjective 
knowledge noun 
label noun 
label verb 
lack noun 
lack verb 
language noun 
large adjective 
largely adverb 
latter noun 
law noun 
leader noun 
leadership noun 
learning noun 
legal adjective 
legally adverb 
less adverb 
less determiner 
less pronoun 
level noun 
likely adjective 
likely adverb 
limit noun 
limit verb 
limitation noun 
limited adjective 
line noun 
link noun 
link verb 
list noun 
list verb 
literature noun 
local adjective 
localized adjective 
locally adverb 
located adjective 
location noun 
logic noun 
logical adjective 
loss noun 
low adjective 
main adjective 
maintain verb 
major adjective 
majority noun 
male adjective 
male noun 
many adjective 
many determiner 
margin noun 
material adjective 
material noun 
matter noun 
maximize verb 
maximum adjective 
maximum noun 
may modal verb 
meaning noun 
meaningful adjective 
means noun 
measure noun 
measure verb 
mechanism noun 
media noun 
mediate verb 
medical adjective 
medium noun 
member noun 
mental adjective 
method noun 
methodological adjective 
methodology noun 
might modal verb 
migrate verb 
migration noun 
minimal adjective 
minimize verb 
minimum adjective 
minimum noun 
minor adjective 
minority noun 
mix verb 
mobile adjective 
mobility noun 
mobilize verb 
mode noun 
model noun 
model verb 
modelling noun 
modern adjective 
modernity noun 
modernization noun 
modify verb 
monitor verb 
moreover adverb 
most determiner 
motivate verb 
motivation noun 
movement noun 
multiple adjective 
must modal verb 
namely adverb 
national adjective 
national noun 
natural adjective 
naturally adverb 
nature noun 
necessarily adverb 
necessary adjective 
necessity noun 
need noun 
negative adjective 
negatively adverb 
net adjective 
network noun 
neutral adjective 
nevertheless adverb 
new adjective 
norm noun 
normal adjective 
normally adverb 
note verb 
notion noun 
novel adjective 
number noun 
object noun 
objective adjective 
objective noun 
observation noun 
observe verb 
observer noun 
obtain verb 
occupation noun 
occupy verb 
occur verb 
occurrence noun 
offer verb 
often adverb 
ongoing adjective 
online adjective 
operate verb 
operation noun 
operational adjective 
opportunity noun 
optimal adjective 
option noun 
order noun 
ordinary adjective 
organization noun 
organize verb 
orient verb 
orientation noun 
origin noun 
original adjective 
originally adverb 
originate verb 
other adjective 
otherwise adverb 
outcome noun 
outline verb 
output noun 
overall adjective 
overall adverb 
overlap noun 
overlap verb 
overview noun 
parallel adjective 
parallel noun 
part noun 
partial adjective 
partially adverb 
participant noun 
participate verb 
participation noun 
particular adjective 
particular noun 
particularly adverb 
partly adverb 
pattern noun 
per preposition 
per cent adjective 
per cent noun 
perceive verb 
percentage noun 
perception noun 
perform verb 
performance noun 
period noun 
permit verb 
personal adjective 
perspective noun 
phase noun 
phenomenon noun 
physical adjective 
point noun 
policy noun 
population noun 
pose verb 
position noun 
position verb 
positive adjective 
positively adverb 
possibility noun 
possible adjective 
potential adjective 
potential noun 
potentially adverb 
poverty noun 
power noun 
practical adjective 
practice noun 
practitioner noun 
precede verb 
precise adjective 
precisely adverb 
precision noun 
predict verb 
prediction noun 
predominantly adverb 
preference noun 
presence noun 
present adjective 
present noun 
present verb 
presentation noun 
pressure noun 
prevent verb 
prevention noun 
previous adjective 
previously adverb 
primarily adverb 
primary adjective 
principle noun 
prior adjective 
priority noun 
private adjective 
probability noun 
problem noun 
problematic adjective 
procedural adjective 
procedure noun 
process noun 
process verb 
produce verb 
product noun 
production noun 
productive adjective 
professional adjective 
professional noun 
profile noun 
programme noun 
progress noun 
progression noun 
progressive adjective 
project noun 
project verb 
projection noun 
promote verb 
promotion noun 
proportion noun 
proportional adjective 
proposal noun 
propose verb 
proposition noun 
protect verb 
protection noun 
protocol noun 
provide verb 
psychological adjective 
public adjective 
public noun 
purpose noun 
qualitative adjective 
quality noun 
quantify verb 
quantitative adjective 
quantity noun 
question noun 
race noun 
random adjective 
randomize verb 
randomly adverb 
range noun 
range verb 
rapid adjective 
rapidly adverb 
rate noun 
rate verb 
rather adverb 
rating noun 
ratio noun 
rational adjective 
rationale noun 
rationality noun 
reaction noun 
readily adverb 
reality noun 
reason noun 
reasonable adjective 
reasonably adverb 
reasoning noun 
recent adjective 
recently adverb 
recognition noun 
recognize verb 
recommend verb 
reconstruct verb 
reconstruction noun 
record noun 
record verb 
recording noun 
recovery noun 
reduce verb 
reduction noun 
refer verb 
reference noun 
reflect verb 
reflection noun 
regard noun 
regard verb 
regardless of preposition 
regime noun 
region noun 
regional adjective 
regulation noun 
reinforce verb 
reject verb 
rejection noun 
relate verb 
related adjective 
relation noun 
relationship noun 
relative adjective 
relative noun 
relatively adverb 
release noun 
relevance noun 
relevant adjective 
reliability noun 
reliable adjective 
reliance noun 
rely verb 
removal noun 
remove verb 
replace verb 
replacement noun 
report noun 
report verb 
reporting noun 
represent verb 
representation noun 
representative adjective 
representative noun 
require verb 
requirement noun 
research noun 
researcher noun 
resident noun 
resistance noun 
resistant adjective 
resolution noun 
resolve verb 
resource noun 
respect noun 
respectively adverb 
respond verb 
response noun 
responsibility noun 
responsible adjective 
restrict verb 
restriction noun 
restrictive adjective 
result noun 
result verb 
reveal verb 
review noun 
right noun 
rise noun 
risk noun 
role noun 
root noun 
rule noun 
rural adjective 
safety noun 
sample noun 
sample verb 
sampling noun 
satisfaction noun 
satisfy verb 
scale noun 
scale verb 
scenario noun 
scheme noun 
science noun 
scientific adjective 
scope noun 
second adverb 
secondary adjective 
secondly adverb 
section noun 
sector noun 
security noun 
seek verb 
segment noun 
select verb 
selection noun 
selective adjective 
sense noun 
sensitive adjective 
sensory adjective 
separate adjective 
separate verb 
separately adverb 
separation noun 
sequence noun 
series noun 
service noun 
set noun 
sex noun 
sexual adjective 
sexuality noun 
shape noun 
shape verb 
share noun 
share verb 
shift noun 
should modal verb 
show verb 
significance noun 
significant adjective 
significantly adverb 
similar adjective 
similarity noun 
similarly adverb 
simple adjective 
simplify verb 
simply adverb 
simultaneous adjective 
simultaneously adverb 
single adjective 
site noun 
situation noun 
size noun 
skill noun 
so-called adjective 
social adjective 
socially adverb 
societal adjective 
society noun 
software noun 
solution noun 
solve verb 
source noun 
space noun 
spatial adjective 
specialist noun 
specialized adjective 
specific adjective 
specifically adverb 
specification noun 
specify verb 
sphere noun 
stability noun 
stabilize verb 
stable adjective 
stage noun 
standard adjective 
standard noun 
state noun 
state verb 
statement noun 
statistic noun 
statistical adjective 
statistically adverb 
status noun 
stimulate verb 
stimulation noun 
stock noun 
store verb 
strategy noun 
strength noun 
strengthen verb 
stress noun 
stress verb 
strongly adverb 
structural adjective 
structure noun 
structure verb 
study noun 
study verb 
subject adjective 
subject noun 
subject verb 
subjective adjective 
subsequent adjective 
substance noun 
substantial adjective 
substantially adverb 
substantive adjective 
substitute verb 
substitution noun 
successful adjective 
successfully adverb 
such determiner 
sufficient adjective 
sufficiently adverb 
suggest verb 
suitable adjective 
sum noun 
summarize verb 
summary noun 
supply noun 
supply verb 
support noun 
support verb 
survey noun 
survival noun 
sustain verb 
system noun 
systematic adjective 
systematically adverb 
target noun 
target verb 
task noun 
technical adjective 
technique noun 
technological adjective 
technology noun 
tend verb 
tendency noun 
tension noun 
term noun 
term verb 
terminology noun 
terms noun 
territory noun 
test noun 
test verb 
text noun 
the above 
theme noun 
theoretical adjective 
theoretically adverb 
theory noun 
thereby adverb 
therefore adverb 
threat noun 
threshold noun 
thus adverb 
tool noun 
topic noun 
total adjective 
total noun 
traditional adjective 
traditionally adverb 
training noun 
transfer noun 
transfer verb 
transform verb 
transformation noun 
transition noun 
transmission noun 
transmit verb 
transport noun 
transport verb 
transportation noun 
treat verb 
treatment noun 
trend noun 
type noun 
typical adjective 
typically adverb 
ultimate adjective 
ultimately adverb 
uncertainty noun 
unclear adjective 
undergo verb 
underlying adjective 
understanding noun 
undertake verb 
undertaking noun 
unique adjective 
unit noun 
universal adjective 
unlikely adjective 
unrelated adjective 
unstable adjective 
upper adjective 
urban adjective 
usage noun 
use noun 
use verb 
useful adjective 
utility noun 
utilization noun 
utilize verb 
valid adjective 
validate verb 
validation noun 
validity noun 
valuable adjective 
value noun 
variable adjective 
variable noun 
variance noun 
variation noun 
varied adjective 
variety noun 
various adjective 
vary verb 
version noun 
versus preposition 
vertical adjective 
via preposition 
view noun 
view verb 
viewer noun 
violence noun 
visible adjective 
visual adjective 
volume noun 
voluntary adjective 
wealth noun 
website noun 
weight noun 
welfare noun 
whereas conjunction 
whether conjunction 
whole noun 
wide adjective 
widely adverb 
widespread adjective 
within preposition 
working adjective 
working noun 
world noun 
yield noun 
yield verb 

© 2024 Oxford University Press